INTRODUCTION 1.1 Project Objectives To make the educational system online that is conducting of exams in online which results in minimum cost the examination can be done, which can prove to be very cost effective.

1.2 Description of the project

 	In the present system of the Examination conducted through franchises of the Educational institutions are carried out manually.  Institutions are sending questions papers to the franchises for examination and collect the answer sheet from the franchise all these things are taking lot of time and required heavy physical strength. Institutions are frequently conducting the exams and they have to maintain the variation of questions from one exam to another exam for different times. This will take lot of time and also a very cost effective. Evaluation of answer sheets and issuing results also takes a lot of time. All sort of information pertaining to the Exams such as student information, Franchises information, Courses information, Question papers and results etc., is to be done manually.  These types of procedures involve lot of paper work and it will take a lot of time. All the Examinations procedures are carried out using physical strength. 
With the proposed system, with the minimum cost the examination can be done, which can prove to be very cost effective. The present system developed will give the full information about the institution courses and its exams and it is an interactive and user-friendly interface, it is flexible enough to cope up with the changing trends of the institution. The system provides the easy way of the selecting the properties from list of specifications of a particular type of exam. Thus with proposed system the user can write exam online saving time and trouble to travel all around is not faced. This system will maintain the Exams information for all the Branches of the Head Office as per the details given below.

1.3 Existing system

	In the existing system all the work is done manually. This is chance of committing errors and it will take more time to perform any transaction. There is so many limitations in the existing system. So the existing system should be atomized. If the system is carried over manually, for every transaction it take more time. So it is difficult to take immediate decisions. It is difficult to find out where the problem is occurring
Disadvantages of the Existing System

 Existing system was not user friendly  System was not well organized and precise  It was time consuming  Information was redundant and inconsistent  It didn’t integrated all the modules Decision making was difficult 1.4 Proposed System Need For Automation • To overcome the limitations of the existing system that will provide the user the facility of choosing the exam he wants to write and saves a lot of time and money for both examiner and the examinee. • Online Evaluator will be user friendly. • It will maintain the information of the users who are registered and who wrote exam and what results they got. • It will also maintain information about the questions and answers and it automates the process of evaluating the answers sheets and issuing of results. • At the end of the exam it will display the exam summary consisting of number of questions answered, number of correct answers, number of wrong answers, number of left answers and result of the exam that is whether the user passed the exam or not. Proposed System with Features • To overcome the limitations of the existing system that will provide the user the facility of choosing the exam he wants to write and saves a lot of time and money for both examiner and the examinee. • Online Evaluator will be user friendly. • It will maintain the information of the users who are registered and who wrote exam and what results they got. • It will also maintain information about the questions and answers and it automates the process of evaluating the answers sheets and issuing of results. • At the end of the exam it will display the exam summary consisting of number of questions answered, number of correct answers, number of wrong answers, number of left answers and result of the exam that is whether the user passed the exam or not. Automated Processes Automated process is a process which is executed automatically by the system. After completion of interaction with the user, the system will perform some automated processes. • In the user registration process, user is asked to fill a registration form. After filling the form his registration will be completed by the system with the issuing of a user id. • After the user finishes the exam the evaluation process is done automatically by the system. • Issuing of results is also an automated process and the database is automatically updated with marks.

Non-Automated Processes

Non-automated Process is a process, which is completely executed by the human actor. If any modifications are required to the System then the human actor will handle them. • Admissions are to be done manually • Institutions cannot be registered online Sending userid and password to the Institution
